Himachal Pradesh
Manali
Video Description
Today
Monthly
January
-6.3 - 16.2 °C
February
-4.0 - 18.2 °C
March
-1.2 - 23.3 °C
April
2.5 - 26.2 °C
May
5.2 - 29.9 °C
June
8.5 - 30.6 °C
July
12.0 - 29.6 °C
August
11.9 - 28.5 °C
September
7.7 - 27.3 °C
October
2.8 - 25.7 °C
November
-0.4 - 20.7 °C
December
-2.7 - 17.4 °C
Nearest Airports :
Kullu–Manali Airport (KKU), Kullu (Bhuntar)
Shaheed Bhagat Singh International Airport (IXC), Chandigarh
Nearest Railway Station :
Joginder Nagar Railway Station (JGNX)
Share
State/UT :
Manali
Share
Nearest Airports :
Kullu–Manali Airport (KKU), Kullu (Bhuntar)
Shaheed Bhagat Singh International Airport (IXC), Chandigarh
Share
A treasure trove of inspiration and wisdom
Manali is located in the heart of Himachal Pradesh. According to Hindu mythology, the town's name is derived from "Manu-Alaya," which means "the abode of Manu," the first man and the lawgiver. Legend has it that sage Manu stepped off his ark here to recreate human life after a great flood had deluged the world. Manali is often referred to as the "Valley of the Gods" and is nestled in the majestic Himalayas, showcasing the unparalleled creativity of nature. The town's snow-capped peaks, pure rivers, deep woods, and lush green valley’s combine to create a visual symphony that truly tantalises the senses. One of the must-visit places in Manali is the Hadimba Devi Temple , dedicated to Hadimba, the wife of Bhima, a hero of the Pandava clan in the epic Mahabharata. A unique fact of the temple is that it was built to honour a demoness. The temple's Pagoda-style architecture, with its four-tiered structure made of wood and stones, a metal roof, and a 24-metre-high Shikhara is a captivating feature. The nearby Vashisht village is well-known for its 4,000-year-old Vashisht temple, one of the seven great Vedic sages, known as the Saptarishis and sulphurous hot springs said to have extraordinary therapeutic properties. Adjacent to the springs, are temples honouring Lord Shiva and Lord Rama. The Manu temple is dedicated to Rishi Manu who codified the Hindu laws in his book ‘Manusmriti’. The temple is made of stone, wood and tiles and is the only temple in India in his honour. Brighu Lake , legend has it that this was where the great sage Maharishi Bhrigu meditated. The waters of the lake never freeze. Locals believe that the gods and goddesses of the valley come here for a dip.
Hidimba Devi Temple, Manali
Manali offers adventures galore (the famous Hampta Pass trek), attracting enthusiasts worldwide for their stunning surroundings and breathtaking views of the Solang Valley . Rohtang Pass , the world's highest motorable pass, the Pandoh dam, an embankment dam on the Beas River, generating hydroelectric power and offering stunning scenic views.
Wildlife enthusiasts head straight for the Manali reserve where dense woods of Deodar, Kail, Horse chestnut, Walnut, and Maple can be seen along the path. Among the frequently observed creatures in this area are musk deer, brown and monal bears, snow leopards, and leopards. One can witness ibex herds travelling in the glacier zone during the summer. For the history and cultural buffs, the festivals celebrated in Manali reflect the diversity of faiths in the area. One of the most popular festivals is Dussehra, which lasts for a month. The Hadimba Devi Fair is held in the temple, where locals gather to pay their respects. The Doongri Forest festival also honours the Goddess Hadimba. Baisakhi and Lohri are significant because it is celebrated as a farewell to the winter season. The Losar Festival is celebrated by the Tibetan community in Manali, with people dressing up in traditional attire and recreating the wedding day of a local princess with Lord Padmasambhava. Manali offers a variety of cuisine options that range from local dishes to international cuisines. The place is well-known for its delicious vegetarian and non-vegetarian food. Some of the popular local vegetarian dishes are kaddu ka khatta, guchhi matter, and sepu vadi. On the other hand, popular non-vegetarian dishes include kullu trout, grilled fish, and chicken anardana. A treasure trove shopping here is an adventure with hidden treasures in every nook and corner. Old Manali offers a variety of markets such as the Tibetan market, Manu Market, Mall Road, and the Himachal Emporium that are well worth exploring.
Attractions
worth a thousand stories
Solang Nullah
Hidimba Temple
Jagatsukh
Naggar
The Manali Gompa
Rohtang Pass
Brighu Lake
Vashisht Temple
Nehru Kund
Mountaineering Institute
A trove of
fascinating facts
A trove of
fascinating facts
Manali is renowned for adventure sports such as skiing, hiking, mountaineering, paragliding, rafting, trekking, kayaking and mountain biking.
A trove of
fascinating facts
A trove of
fascinating facts
Manali is the gateway to the Rohtang Pass , one of the highest motorable roads in the world.
A trove of
fascinating facts
A trove of
fascinating facts
Hidimba Devi Temple is dedicated to Hidimba Devi, the wife of Bhima, one of the Pandavas from the Indian epic 'Mahabharata'
Experiences
for every passion
The Best Places to Eat in Manali
5 blissful things to do in Manali | Manali travel guide
A Self-Drive Biking Trip in Manali: An Adventure I Cannot Forget
The Best Adventure Experiences in Manali
11 Unforgettable Things To Do in Manali
Offbeat Destinations Near Manali For A Peaceful Holiday
Itineraries
that beckon every traveller
Remove filter item
No Results Found
Map of
Manali
Explore Manali
Featured
Top Attractions Heritage Spiritual Wildlife Clear all Show results
Activities Nature Adventure Weddings Arts Rural Recreation Wellness Clear all Show results
Festivals & Events Shopping National Occasions Cultural & Spiritual Music & Arts Nature & Wildlife Food & Recreation Sports & Adventure Clear all Show results
Food & Beverage
Shopping
Getting Around Airports Railway Stations Clear all Show results
ATMs
Police Stations
Health Facilities
Bus stand/Taxi stands
Load results
Please apply filter(s) to refine results
Destinations Nearby
Kullu
Keylong
Dharamshala
Spiti Valley
Kangra
Chamba
Dalhousie
Shimla
reckong-peo
Pathankot
Places to stay